foreign
first and foremost again I just want to
take a moment out to thank the
administration of the Masjid
may Allah bless them immensely
indeed is one of those massages that
brings the four corners of Manchester
together
obeda he was telling me subhanallah how
many
nationalities can we see sitting here
you know very Multicultural so it's
really really magnificent to see how the
Masjid is bringing together all of these
different nationalities as we are all
from the children of Adam
today you find massages Somali Masjid
Pakistani Masjid
we need massage that bring everyone
together
foreign
the second point that I want to make my
brothers and my sisters
when he contacted me
he wanted me to go through a small
treaties or like a mitten a text
for this period between us and Maghrib
to be fair and honest right Sheikh had a
point
to go through text because you know we
have to try and balance it out between
lectures and likewise lessons
the reason I'm mentioning this is
because there is
a very important point I want to make
when it comes to our Dean brothers and
sisters right with lectures what does he
do it increases your Iman
it's an Iman Busta people always say oh
that was a wonderful lecture my Iman
went up
how do we keep our Iman afloat our faith
afloat
by learning more about Allah
right
our only source of information that we
have with regards to Allah is through
his names
and his attributes right
the more you learn about Allah the more
fearful you become of Allah
the more you are in awe of him right the
more conscious you will be of Allah
and this is what you normally find
in the text that I studied
however
my brothers and my sisters I told the
Sheikh that I want to go through a
passage from the Quran
which has also been incorporated into a
Hadith that The Messengers
related the story of moon
he engaged and interacted with Salaam
right
and of course there is nothing more
greater than going through the book of
Allah
and going through text is not the only
way
of gaining that consciousness of Allah
an individual may think that you have to
only go through books
and to completely overlook
the lectures
used to give reminders on Thursdays
he also used to give hudbas Friday
sermons right
and he used to explain the Quran to his
companions
right so there are different ways of
learning about our religion and this is
something that needs to be emphasized
right whether it is done by way of a
text whether it is done by explaining a
Hadith whether it is done by doing
tafsir of the Quran
sometimes we hear that someone may be
explaining the book of Allah
this is chaotic dawah just because he
has chosen not to go through a
particular text
right and this is of course wrong as
well there has to be a balance there has
to be a balance
in a time of the companions
they didn't have like text but the
message would explain the Quran to them
right so even though the Sheikh wanted
me to go through a text
right that goes up all the way to
Maghrib he said I'm going to make sure
that I rinse every
right
ounce of or every inch of energy out of
you now that you're coming to Manchester
but alhamdulillah I chose to go through
this Hadith which is a little bit long
which we're going to go through
and then we're going to extrapolate 15
benefits
right in this time that we have last
week I did the same but I only had
enough time to go through 10 when I went
to Dobby
hopefully today it will be a lot more
explanatory a lot more detailed
relatable that which we can take away
and apply almost instantly in our
day-to-day lives
right
here
he brings this interaction or this
engagement that Musa Allah
narrated and he chaptered it as
right
look at the way he chopped at it that
which is required from a scholar when he
is asked who the most knowledgeable
person is that he credits this knowledge
back to Allah this whole history the way
he started as we will come to know in a
moment
as the Hadith goes right to babe in a
cab
he says that the message
once narrated
stood up
and he began to deliver a sermon
as he was delivering this sermon
he was asked who is the most
knowledgeable person
right
his response was
I am the most knowledgeable person
is
right so Allah decided to admonish him
decided to discipline Musa Allah
simply because he did not credit this
knowledge back to Allah
foreign
above every individual who possesses
knowledge there is someone who is more
knowledgeable than him and above
everyone is
most knowledgeable of everything and
that keeps you my brothers and my
sisters grounded keeps your feet on the
ground humbled
the moment you begin to think that you
are something my brothers and my sisters
you are right taking a very dark
journey to destruction
right
we are nothing my brothers and my
sisters right if you want to know what
kind of individual you are my brothers
or my sisters or
on the face of this Earth what you
actually equate to maybe go up the 15th
floor
I live on the 15th floor in a building
that's maybe what 17 floors
go up to maybe the 15th or the 16th
floor and then look down
you will see what little dots walking
around who are human beings
that tiny right this is what we are
I even heard subhanallah one of the
great Pious men of the past one
dimension
foreign
and he came out of two private parts
but then he's walking on the face of
this uh on the face of this Earth so hot
so arrogant so proud what is he
referring to he came out of his dad's
private partner then
his mother gave birth to him so he came
out of two private parts and then he
walks around being extremely arrogant
right
so here and by the way I'm not saying
just in case someone wants to clip this
out and put it on tick tock right
Brothers
I'm not even on Tick Tock though is
clipping videos out
making these anyways
decided to discipline him for not
crediting
the knowledge back to Allah
inspired him now to go and visit a
servant from amongst his many servants
that is at the conjunction of where the
two seas meet
right
being so eager even though remember
brothers and sisters
he's a prophet from the prophets of
Allah and not just any random prophet
azim from the five greatest prophets
right
he is more knowledgeable than you go to
him
how do I get to him
foreign
revealed to him take a bucket that has a
fish inside of it
and when you lose this fish
where you lose this fish is
going to be
right in
so he set out on his journey and he took
along with him
a servant called yusha noon
right
so they took this fish
with them
and the Sahara
up until they reached the Sahara this
rock
and they decided now
to sleep on this rock we've been
traveling
and as they were asleep
right this fish jumped out of this
bucket that they were carrying and he
slipped into the sea
foreign
guys
all right so it made its way interesting
uh
so they continued
traveling
through the night and then through the
day
as around you know noon time kicked in
um
bring us the Lunchable
indeed we have begun to experience
right much fatigue through all of this
traveling that we have been doing
right
uh
the hajib
thing in all of this was that Musa even
though they were traveling for so long
he didn't begin to feel any tiredness up
until this point
right up until this point
Allah
wants to alert him that he has maybe
gone past where he was destined to go to
right or where he was on his way to go
to
so after that subhanallah
do you remember Musa when we stopped at
that rock
and we slept
I forgot that hood that fish that we
were carrying at that point
right
this is what we've been seeking all of
this time
Allah revealed him that he should take
this fish and the moment he loses this
fish that's where that's where Allah is
going to be right
but they didn't pay attention after
waking up they continued traveling
someone says saying that's where we're
meant to be that was our destination so
they went back
he tells us
so they went retracting their footsteps
right
foreign
they saw this man standing there that
was covered in His Garment
right
foreign
how do you guys give each other salams
from where you're from
how do you guys greet each other
right
so he told him
Israel
said yes
right
is it possible for me to accompany you
so that you may teach me something that
Allah
foreign
you will not be able to be patient
right you're not going to be able to be
patient with me
right you want to accompany me right but
I don't think you're going to be patient
s
right
tells him
has blessed me with knowledge
that you don't possess and Allah as the
original has taught you that which I
don't have or that which I am not aware
of
right
with some response then he says
you are going to find me patient
don't worry right
and I'm not going to disobey you in
anything
that you asked me to do you will not see
me going against
your orders and your Commandments I will
be patient
right
even though it is not mentioned in
Hadith right Allah tells us in his Quran
how can you be patient about something
that you don't have any knowledge of one
of the benefits that we're going to be
taking inshallah when we go through the
15 benefits is
that which helps with patience is the
coping mechanism is to have an idea of
what you are getting yourself involved
in
prior to
starting that Journey
it could be Investments it could be
marriage how many people do we see
pulling out of marriages
they want to jump ship the grass is
green on the other side this is not what
I signed up for we're going to come on
to that and that is because
I see a lot of people smiling huh I
think they feel like that right
it helps to educate yourself prior to
what you are about to start doing
right to prepare yourself mentally
and physically
right to what you're about to embark on
we're going to come and tell inshallah
foreign
on the seashore on the coast right they
didn't have a Savina they didn't have a
ship with them
as they were walking
famous
as they were walking brothers and
sisters
a ship came close and they recognized
so they offered to let them board the
ship without charging them
right
so they go on the ship they bought it
as they were there standing on the ship
was
foreign
this bird came and it began to
sit on the side of the ship
and it began to peck on the water
can you guys imagine a bird now pecking
into the water as they do right
you'll see them floating on the water
and then start picking in order to
quench their thirst
right
so he did that once or twice as the
Hadith mentions
you know when this bird starts pecking
onto the sea
does it reduce from the sea that is
picking from
not really right
Allah
in order to benefit from him
is telling him that
you know how much of the sea has been
reduced by the pecking of
this bed
no matter how knowledgeable we are the
knowledge that I possess and the
knowledge that you possess
doesn't take anything away from the
knowledge of Allah
the same way the picking of this bird
doesn't take anything away from the sea
we ask ourselves why is this happening
to me this shouldn't be happening to me
right
our knowledge is very very limited we
don't understand why it's maybe
happening for us in this way
we think that it's always bad for us but
Allah
knows that we don't know
we just have to let Allah execute his
plan
but we're going to come into all of this
inshallah I'm getting a little bit too
excited you know
it's coming out from time to time
babe
foreign
took a couple of steps forward and he
decided to pull out a plank of wood from
this ship that they were on
I imagine yourself now you've boarded
this ship and you start getting a hammer
and you start digging through the ship
would anyone in their right mind do that
started
to do right
become shocked at what he's doing and he
says to him right
now
right they let you both for free they
didn't take a charge
right they didn't take any money of you
and then you decided to put a hole
inside of the ship what are you doing
right
um
then I say to you that you are not going
to be able to be patient
right
said
foreign
don't hold me into account for that
which I done out of forgetfulness
for those who read
social care regularly or those of
memorized Turtle Kev
right as I'm going through this Hadith
there are parts that come to mind right
some of these parts of the Hadith my
brothers and my sisters
right are quranic ayat
the verses have been incorporated into
what the message was explaining
there are steps I can't just start
thinking oh this is what I think or this
is what I thought today right let me
start uttering about the Quran what I
think no it doesn't work like that
right there are steps that the earloma
mentioned in their books of alsolette
the first step is Quran explained in the
Quran with the Quran there are parts of
the Quran there are maybe let's just say
in Social baqarah that explain that
which is at the end of the Quran
right and then the second step is Sunnah
when the Quran is explained by way of
Hadith by way of the Sunnah once then
you can't think that I'm going to
separate the Quran from the Hadith no
they go hand in hand with one another
that's why if you don't know Hadith it's
going to be very very hard now to
explain or to try and understand the
Quran they go hand in hand with one
another
right the Quran was coming down upon the
prophet salallahu
and then he would explain it to his
companions
and then you have what
explain in the Quran with the statements
of the companions
as they took the Quran directly from the
Companions and then you have the Arabic
language as well so there are What
followed it's not what I think you think
so what my mom is
told me about this is what he means okay
I need to ask him where did he get his
understanding from
when you look at a lot of these liberals
they'll just come to the Quran and start
explaining the Quran however they want
doesn't work like that
I was watching this
I don't want to say the name because I
don't want you guys to get exposed to it
right where they sat down conservative
Muslims and liberal Muslims the video
went absolutely viral it was on YouTube
liberal Muslims we saw it
masha'allah
you guys on YouTube
you had conservative Muslim they had
liberal Muslims they would ask them
questions such as
is the hijab mandatory
so you had a liberal
think she was what
she was a
was she homosexual
homosexual right because we have to be
careful she might be transgender and I'm
you know and I need to you know be
careful with the pronouns and
so anyways she's wearing hijab as well
but she identifies as homosexual
right
and then she goes no the Quran doesn't
say that hijab is mandatory
based on who's understanding her
understanding and then she goes when I
went through the tafsira of the Quran
she started reading Quran English it
just said you should wear the hijab
Quran
but she saw a very
how can I put this right
a translation of the Quran because the
translation never gives the Quran his
true true Justice
right it never gives his true Justice in
the Arabic language certain types of
weddings and phrases
what it does it tells you because of
this phrase now or because the word has
been maybe worded in this way it shows
Umar that this is now mandatory and
sometimes it's Sunnah there's a whole
science that he studied
and you can only understand this if you
know the Arabic language alongside
which are the tools that you need in
order to understand the Quran
and this one I said to myself ah this is
why in knowledge is so important
so important
bless those two brothers
one of them is called Jad
and I forgot the other brother's name
who really stood up for Islamic values
and morals
and they held their ground
type
so he said they let you board for free
and now he's decided to put a hole in
their ship
right in order to drown them
so hey
the next one is
am I wrong
oh he's praying
and then he said to him call
um
well we've already mentioned it right
he said
right
don't hold me to account for that which
I don't out of forgetfulness
so the prophet salallahu said the first
strike was out of forgetfulness
because he told him don't ask me any
questions right
don't ask me any questions just listen
to what I'm going to tell you the first
one was done out of forgetfulness
foreign
they run into a young child
Sam grabs him and he pulls his head off
his body kills him
have you killed an innocent Soul who has
killed none
right
on
right indeed you have carried out that
which is extremely evil
right
he made
a hasty judgment about what is
two different ways of reciting it
all right then and I say to you that you
wouldn't be able to be patient almost uh
so then they continued walking
right
and they run into a group of people
who lived in a village
they requested to be hosted
and they refused to host them
they refused the host moons
and after this interaction with the
people of the village that took place
they saw this wall that was on the verge
of collapsing
he went towards it and put it straight
he said Tim if you want you can take
money for this
you can charge them for straightening up
the
the wall
this is
this is indeed the moment that we are
going to separate from one another says
so the prophet salallahu said
have mercy upon Musa
right
I wish that he was patient so that you
know we could hear about
the rest
right
and that which was going to take place
between the mouth
there's another narration that says
right if only he was patient then he
would have seen amazing things from His
companion meaning
this is not mentioned in Hadith
right
explains them as to why he did
everything and I'm going to quickly
mention it inshallah
he then goes on to explain
um
foreign
right system as for the ship that he put
a hole in it belonged to some masakin
some needy individuals who used to work
on sea yeah
so I wanted
to fault this ship and that is because
right
there was in front of them a king
who would cease
every Ship by force
right
the reason why I put a hole in there is
once now it reaches the shore
once the king sees that there is a fault
inside of the ship he's not going to
take it
does that make sense
so he wanted to fault it that's why he
did that
second time
as for the child that he killed
Allah tells us that he had parents that
were both Believers however we feared
that
he would be the cause that they
prostrate from the religion
said
he says that the meaning of this is
that it was fair that because of how
much they loved their son
it will lead them now to follow
their beloved Son to them into alcohol
into renegading from The Deen of Allah
that's why I killed him
took him off the face of this Earth
now this is number three
right
as for the wall that he straighten up
even though they refused to host them he
could have easily turned around okay you
guys refused the host us forget about
you guys right we're not going to do you
any favors let the wall huh
come down
let it crumble
that this world belonged to two orphans
that lived
in this Village
and under it was buried a treasure
that belonged to them to these two needy
sorry these two
atom these two orphans
and their father was righteous and
because of the righteousness of their
father
foreign
grow older right
after reaching the age of puberty they
would take this kins this treasure that
was buried underneath this wall that was
about to crumble
maybe had it crumbled
the people in the village would start
fighting over the skins
that would be unraveled from the ground
right how often do we find that
you've got uncles who are looking for
ways
to seize that inheritance away from
their own nephews and nieces very very
common as someone who does a lot of
inheritance distribution you've got an
uncle who's here and then all of his
family is back home in Pakistan or in
India or in Somalia
right
if he passes away tomorrow he's telling
me I fear
that my own brothers and sisters are
going to cease
right all of my properties in the land
that I possess back home
and nothing is going to be left for my
own children
right so Allah wanted for all of these
Treasures to remain buried so once they
grow older they can take it
right
I start mentioning these 15 benefits my
brothers and my sister and I'm going to
give you guys a break and exactly
five minutes
how long have we been gone around for I
think it's only half an hour right
it's been half an hour could we finish
late
none so let's give another 15 minutes
or was he just a righteous man
this is a discussion that the scholars
have amongst themselves
right
they say or they put fourth arguments
such as how can one of the greatest
prophets go to another man to see
knowledge
this is not something that should be
strange at all
would seek the consultation of his own
companions right
there was times when when um
would say something
and it would be different to what the
Methodist Alliance suggested Allah would
send down revelation
agreeing with um
so this is not a solid argument
the majority of the scholars they say
that was
in fact a prophet
what's the evidence for this
after he explained
why he did all of these three things
right what is it that he said
I did not do this out of my own accord
right I didn't do it out of my own
accord meaning
all of these calls that I made right all
of these decisions all of these moves
were
due to the Revelation I was coming down
upon me
whenever
and this is now the explanation for that
which you weren't patient for omusa
right
like when you think about it now for him
to take the life of a young child how
does know that he's going to become a
disbeliever when he grows older and
because of his disbelief now his parents
are going to follow him upon kufford
due to the amount of love that they have
for him this only can be done by way of
Revelation right
hmm
15 benefits my brothers and my sisters
from this wonderful
story that Allah has mentioned to us in
the Quran some of these benefits have
been taken from the great Imam
another Scholars
and somewhere out of contemplation
benefit number one my brothers and my
sisters
everything that you see taking place
happens for a reason
all right I'll say that again
and I'm hoping you guys have your pens
in your papers
all right
unless you're lucky
that is able to take everything in huh
the moment they hear it then you're okay
not to write it down
brothers and sisters
these benefits that we write down right
will come in handy maybe 10 15 years
down the line
I still go back to benefits that I wrote
maybe 10 years ago when I was taking
knowledge and because I need it now
I search on my phone because of iCloud
right iCloud
up until recently I was making Dua for
Steve Jobs that Allah guides him to
alisum you guys have Steve Jobs
and one time I said in a lecture someone
puts 100% of that
just to let you know Steve Jobs passed
away
are you allowed to make drive for
someone who's passed away upon cover no
what I was making to have him all the
way up until recently
right why was I making Dara for this
non-muslim that Allah guides him to
Islam it's because of these iPhones
huh the notes you know the notes on
iPhones ask for Galaxy guys I I have no
interest and I don't know anything about
it
right I'm a loyal Apple fan
right that's the only phone I've ever
had
since these phones came into existence
and I will continue to have it and
that's not free promotion for Apple
someone needs to cut out
does that make sense these notes that we
write down even if you lose your phone
you can what retrieve
everything that you had on your phone by
way of iCloud
right I've got pages on their benefits
from 2000
2016 2015 2014. all the way up until
this year
and every now and again I go through it
and I take it out
The Poetry said
it is the student he carries with him
scrap paper
he writes when he writes and he writes
when he walks this is a serious student
of knowledge or someone who really wants
to improve himself and take away benefit
because we're living in the 21st century
I changed it up a little bit
so that it can be relevant and relatable
instead of saying kunashin I changed it
to
it's a freshly way of saying iPad
instead of connections
so it Rhymes meaning we carry with all
of these gadgets and we note down the
benefits whenever we hear it because No
One's Gonna carry scrap paper with them
today
right
on the notes and as for Galaxy I don't
know what you guys have on there huh
write down whenever you hear these
benefits
and then later on what you do you
collect like for like benefits and you
put them all somewhere
right
so the first benefit my brothers and my
sisters everything that you see taking
place happens for a reason
right
he put a hole in that ship
there was a reason for it
right this is just
a very very small example of
why Allah
allows things to take place
which we at times may not be able to
comprehend
likewise the fact that he took the life
of this young man
and also why he decided to straighten up
this wall even though he could have
easily chosen not to
does that make sense my brothers or my
sisters
so if this is happening now between two
human beings Musa
and he's telling him after he's done all
of this that there is a reason for it
what does that show us my brothers and
my sisters when we go through calamities
and hardships
you may not see the good in it my
brothers and my sisters
Allah knows and you don't know my
right
in the month of Ramadan I went to visit
one of my friends
and then his mother walked in and she
said Muhammad I'm not fasting today
I said to Auntie why are you not fasting
today
she said because I'm angry with Allah
I'm not exaggerating she said I am angry
with Allah
right even though normally she carries
out acts of worship
from the apparent she's trying her
utmost best
but the reason why she said she's angry
with Allah is because of all of the
different trials and hardships that her
children are going through she's old
enough
to be the grandmother of some of us my
brothers and my sisters
she has grandchildren
does that make sense she has
grandchildren
some of our children are going through
hardships and difficulties in their
marriages
because even though I pray I fast
right
why is Allah making me go through all of
this I reminded her Auntie you know this
house that we're sitting in it is the
biggest house that I have visited here
in Leicester
that I've personally visited of course
there might be bigger houses that are a
lot more spacious but it's the biggest
house that I've personally entered into
here
in Leicester
I said auntie I don't think you've ever
woken up
except that there was food in your
fridge and if there isn't food in your
fridge you have the finance to go and
buy food
you have all of this right and you're
upset at Allah
right
this life is a life of what tests and
trials you can't expect to have a life
that is going to be filled with
flowers and Bliss and no they are trials
and tribulations
right I should do nothing
the most severely tested people are who
the prophets those like them and then
those that are like them
one is tested in accordance to how much
he adheres to his religion
I think it was last week in Coventry and
we extrapolated some benefits from the
story of Ayub in the Quran
they say after
I believe it was 60
years of
living a life of
extravagance Allah gave him so much
right he had so much my brothers and my
sisters
children wealth health
servants
right and then Allah took all of that
away from him
so quickly
right
first he lost his wealth then he lost
his children
right and then brothers and sisters he
lost his health it didn't stop there
everyone abandoned him forsaked him
except his wife and some of the festival
they mentioned two of his relatives that
would come and visit him from time to
time
the reason why they abandoned him
because of this strong smell this odor
that would come out of his body due to
the skin disorder that he was suffering
from
right
and even then he wasn't ungrateful
right he wasn't ungrateful the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam he told us
Allah
look at those who have less than you
don't look at those who have more that
will make you so much more thankful some
of us are complaining about the council
flat brothers and sisters
many don't even have a roof over their
heads look at what's happening in Syria
and Turkey right or like one of the
uncles that I was with
after the jummah went to eat he was
saying that he went
right and he visited what was happening
there he goes even though they're living
in very difficult circumstances one
thing I took away is that they have
certainty of Allah
right
are you brother and sister with me
whenever you begin to
write feel as if you're being deprived
look at those who are less fortunate
than you
everything that happens my brothers and
my sisters happens for a reason let me
ask Google a question how many a Time
have we been in a situation
where we thought that this was the best
thing for us
to make it even more clear I'll give the
example that every single one of you
guys can relate to
right there's this sister that you so
badly want princess Charming
you're telling yourself there isn't a
sister on the face of this earth that is
better for me than huh
this lady here
right
Bushra
and this lady here
you try everything in your power now to
acquire this lady to get married to her
and then to make things even worse huh
right it's not happening right it's not
happening to make things even worse your
best friend comes and he snatches her
from under your nose
does it happen without Shadow without my
brothers and my sisters
so you got a similar story that one time
I came across
that was a brother who asked for their
sister's hand in marriage as the wedding
day was getting closer and closer
he one time came to the house and he saw
her sister walking past
guess what
he dropped the sister that he wanted to
marry and he said I want to get married
to a sister
these girls of course heartbroken what
did she do she went to a magician in
order to have a magic spell done on him
right
magic right
eous
tells us foreign
she of course didn't think to herself
you know what this is probably happening
because Allah has got something better
in store for me no
I wasn't the case I want him he's not
going after my sister mother
right that's serious my brothers and my
sisters anyways going back to the
incident I was relating
you're heartbroken you really wanted you
really badly wanted Bushra huh it didn't
work out for you
Years Ago by Allah azzawajal blesses you
with a lady
that has qualities and characteristics
that the mind can't imagine
right this is when you say if that
didn't happen I wouldn't have this today
there are brothers that I know they will
say Allah the divorce that they went
through was the best everything that
ever happened to their lives
right because you could have indeed been
in a more difficult situation especially
if you had
children with the lady that you divorced
how many cases do I know right they're
battling out in court over custody
rights she just wants to rinse him
she knows that a law is on her side
but I want him to suffer let him spend
all of these thousands just so huh she
can throw a dagger through him
well you went through a divorce there's
no children there
everything happens for a reason
Allah protects us from a lover a lot of
evil my brothers and my sisters they're
not times we don't actually see it
right
my brothers and my sisters
foreign if it wasn't for these trials
and these difficulties and hardships
adversities that come our way
then the servant would be afflicted with
right
the disease of arrogance and I don't
think any of us want to meet Allah
azzawajid with arrogance even a mustard
grain of arrogance lighted holy genetics
a mustard grain of keyboard that you
have in your heart you know entering the
agendas the message
he says the diseases of kiber
self-amazement even Ferroni
characteristics and traits
and hardness of the heart that which
will be the cause of him being destroyed
in this Dunya before the Hereafter and
then he says
from the mercy of the most merciful upon
this individual right
causes him to go through all of these
hardships and difficulties how is this
you're probably thinking to yourself
right I mean
right in order to keep your feet on the
ground brothers and sisters to keep us
humbled Wallah is a huge reminder
does that make sense it is a huge
reminder
right to keep us on the ground
how many a Time have I seen people who
are filthy rich
right you sit down with him and you feel
so small with the way he's speaking to
you and speaking about your the way he's
you know portraying himself
and then he ends up losing everything
he's sending me a GoFundMe page please
I'm in a difficult situation put this on
your social media
hi
I'm thinking to myself you know
more you begin to read about some of
these gems and powers of the great
Scholars like this one subhanallah
begin to realize why Allah azzawajal may
choose certain things for others
so like we said my brothers and my
sisters the first is what everything
happens for a reason this is just a
small example of
this point that we're trying to make
this
if you're struggling now to understand
right
why
some
took this decision to kill this young
man
for the reason why
apply the same now
right
for everything else
I wouldn't be sitting here my brothers
and my sisters if my friend wasn't shot
and Allah
right
sometimes contemplate and reflect on
the occurrences
across 20 years
I was in London right
a friend of mine was shot
and I was at his funeral he got heard of
Universal TV someone is huh Universal TV
very well known TV channel
happened to come to this funeral and it
recorded me while I was crying
by Maghrib time my mother is receiving
phone calls
from across the world oh was your child
part of this gang
huh was he part of this gang
and then I got pulled into the office
dad
come sit down Muhammad
and they told me to watch myself on the
news
I
and this is when they took the decision
to move me out to Lester
when this happened my brother says it
was the reason why so many brothers left
the streets
many went to Egypt
someone to Medina some moved out
everything happens for a reason
even though from the apparent brothers
and sisters it appears as if
how can Allah azzawajal allow someone
who's so young to be killed in such a
brutal way right
hmm
everything happens for a reason another
example car crash
a mother and her three children she's
the only one that comes out alive and
the rest of these young children who
still haven't
experienced life
they've passed away
The Atheist will ask
right if there's really a god why is he
allowing this to take place
always ask this question
right
the problem of evil they call it which
is discussed in University settings why
didn't God stop this from taking place
ah my brothers and my sisters who can
answer this question for me
huh
everything happens for a reason but I
want a more of a deeper answer based on
what we just took
hmm
yeah
but who can now put that into
perspective with the story of Musa
guys the story of Musa and this incident
now of these three children dying in a
car crash
and the only one that lives is the
mother
right the story of when Musa
killing this young man what was the
reasoning behind it the prophet saws
had he lived he would have been the
reason as to why they start violating
against the laws of Allah you never know
Allah could have been protecting his
mother from all the trouble that these
three kids would have brought her later
on down the line grid
you know how many times I've had a
parent say right I wish I never had you
as a child
the parent is extremely worried what
happened to my child he's still not home
yet at 12 am
1am is not home
has he been nicked has he been taken by
the police what's happened to him is he
alive is he not
the parent can't go to sleep peacefully
years go past like that and that is
because the child has become so astray
all that trouble
right that the parent has to go through
Allah could have been protecting his
lady from that right
everything happens for a reason my
brothers and my sisters
telling me
right that his Chef actually ran away
from a war zone in Africa and then when
he came to Medina he became a Sheikh in
the Haram
the African Sheikh he's teaching the
Arabs
right
imagine that brothers and sisters that
war was the reason why he comes there
a lot of us here my brothers and my
sisters where are our parents from
they are from countries right that were
struck with Wars afterwards academic
do you guys agree with that
I'm looking at some of our nationalities
here
right they went through Wars and because
of the war you moved and now you live
here you're making good money you're
educating yourself and your children
they are going to now become
professionals and you're helping out
your brothers and sisters when you send
money back home to them right
right do we not send money home exactly
Allah azzawajal works in the most
amazing of ways we don't see it you're
probably thinking this of all these wars
that are taking place
why you will understand later why
that's the first benefit my brothers and
my sister were going to take
a five minute break and it will take the
remaining 14 inshallah right after
yeah
it is 24 past please Brothers five
minutes
if you need to do star jumps quickly
stand up huh get the blood circulating
again and then we're going to take the
remaining 14 inshallah
that will perhaps help us in this world
before the hereafter
what was the first benefit Brothers
huh everything happens for a reason
right
is at times that which you can't put
into comprehension
only later on it might appear to you
that subhanal life that didn't happen I
wouldn't have this today
let Allah
right execute
that which he has decreed for us
right and be patient be someone my
brothers and my sisters who is patient
and with patience Allah will open those
that the Mind couldn't imagine
right
number two my brothers and my sisters
is
not being Hasty in passing judgments
I not being Hasty and passing out
judgments
more than once
contested that witch
did right
how could you do this
right
they allowed you to board the ship
without taking a payment from you and
then you decided to fault the
ship that you're on
why would you do that
after he killed that young man indeed
what you're doing is so evil
right
I think this is very very important to
my brothers and my sisters especially
for someone who is now starting that
journey and seeking knowledge
you learn a little bit here and there
what happens you begin to think that you
are Islam
whatever you have studied is either that
way or the highway
agreed
not realizing that at times there are
different angles that people look at
things different perspectives
all that which is required of you is to
ask why
what is your perspective on this
says when we was in the car right I'm
gonna read that what the brother
messaged me right out of the blue I
haven't spoken to his brother for months
out of the blue he messages me the
following
what is wrong with your
so-and-so
this is the first thing I get what is
wrong with you
Allah
he was in shock because what did you do
he says to me Rectify your methodology
and fear Allah because you're going to
meet Allah as the result tomorrow
and then you will be presented your
actions up until now I don't know what
he's talking about
right and he says the people are looking
at you the same way one sits in front of
a Sheikh
they are taking from you that which you
are doing with the actions up until now
I have no idea what he's talking about
take my brothers and my sisters what
have I done
am I someone who
is perfect no I'm going to make mistakes
right
at times I'm going to fall short but at
least have a conversation with me
there are certain issues in my brothers
and my sisters right that are not carved
in stone
Sometimes some of us may see an
individual
right or someone in dawa making a
particular move
he has a certain judgment call he sees
things a certain way I'm not talking
about
but it is something that is open for
interpretation
how we're going to maybe carry this out
he sees that to be
better than maybe what you might think
and he has his reasons for it
and you're thinking to yourself how is
this individual behaving like this ask
him why
don't just take whatever you see as a
perspective right
like
gospel as they say
and then I said to him
what happened to Allah I was not
planning on mentioning this today in the
class
right but I've been seeing this
reoccur
right time and time again with brothers
who have gone abroad that seeking
knowledge they've learned a little bit
here and there
and now they've become extremely
opinionated that which other brothers
are doing back home
I'm not saying you can't have your own
view you are entitled to whatever view
you want
but the moments the moment now that you
start making all of these negative
remarks about
someone who might be a lot more senior
than you or a lot more experienced than
you
right and you thought maybe even
defaming him
right
because you've not understood
maybe four or five brothers that I've
engaged with over the last couple of
weeks
after having a conversation with them
and showing them the perspective of
others they said oh subhanallah you're
right
so I said to his brother
what happened
the response I get was we need to have a
sit down
or a call
inshallah
just tell me what was the issue
and then I explained
if you want to maybe put forth a
particular view or a perspective then
put it forth in a manner that is what
befitting
and I said hey I'm sorry I should have
approached it better I'm going to call
you one of these days inshallah
and then I sent him a screenshot of the
second benefit that I wanted to mention
today
right
and then later on it was about some
picture that he saw someone took a
selfie with me
right as many people do you guys know
this sometimes someone says I cannot
take a picture with you I don't want to
say no to the brother
I don't know what that brother is upon
he could be a drug dealer huh he could
be anything
does that make sense
am I wrong to say this he could be a
drug dealer am I gonna ask him okay so
what do you do from the moment you wake
up huh
or which message did you go to
like there's a lot of things that happen
right just ask and learn to say why or
what is your reasoning for this
huh when the guy just takes out what his
thought and he starts causing people he
starts cutting people up
I can take it easy
as the poet says take it easy
don't be Hasty in placing blame on your
brother perhaps he might have an excuse
that you are not aware of right so what
I wrote down wrote down here you know
sometimes I just get these
thoughts
you may enter into a discussion
with ideas that you already set on right
you are not someone who's looking to
maybe improvise or explore
the other perspectives that are out
there
and this is a problem for a student of
knowledge you never learn like that
if you just hear one thing you take it
as a gospel you carve into stone this is
what I'm going to follow
and you're not open to maybe improvising
some of these issues that are open for
ishtihad interpretation I'm not talking
about what
from the soul of our religion we're
talking about things that are open for
interpretation you know the scholars of
the past they will say either
if you want to know the mistake of your
Sheikh then go and sit elsewhere perhaps
he might give you a perspective on
something that you weren't previously
aware of
right and when you do Behavior like this
and you start maybe approaching the MATA
in this very Hasty way
that person will just look at you and
think this guy is just another rookie
right inexperienced immature right who's
lacking basic etiquettes
does that make sense to my brothers and
my sisters
I saw in the voice no I forward I
forwarded it to his brother that I sent
to another couple of Brothers
I'm not saying you can't have a view
just ask for the perspective of others
that's the basic right that he has over
you you've just started seeking
knowledge right now you've gone abroad
you've heard a couple of perspectives
right just ask
likewise at times my brothers and my
sisters our parents may ask us to do
certain things
and you're thinking
you know my parent here is back home or
he comes from back home Somalia or
Pakistan he's out of date or he's out of
touch with reality
one thing you'll never be able to get
over those who are older than you
especially your parents is experience
not that I'm saying everything they say
is going to be 100 right to always in
line with what Allah said but they have
experience over you even at times when
it comes to marriage
they may say something to you that
you know
doesn't make sense to you
and you might be someone who is
knowledgeable right you're not seeing
their perspective
it's just important to just
lend it to your ear take it seriously
he's got experience over you
right
benefit number three my brothers what
was number one
everything happens phrase number two
don't be Hasty in passing out judgments
take it easy right
benefit number three right
s
after he killed that boy you've killed
an innocent soul
Moon
you've indeed done something that is
extremely evil he's saying this to the
teacher
right
what do we take from this my brothers
that taking an innocent life is
something that is extremely extremely
extremely evil it's not a light matter
right
I'm sure a lot of us my brothers and my
sisters we saw a video of the Arapaho DJ
Khalid when he went to the Kaaba
upon seeing the cupboard was his
reaction my brothers and my sisters
what happened the moment he saw the
Kaaba
he began to cry why you guys
accidentally don't know huh
began to cry he burst into tears
looking at the
House of Allah
this man my brothers and my sisters
who's openly involved in sin making
music videos upon seeing the Kaaba he
broke down into tears
right
what did the message tell us
a
Casino
would anyone ever think about punching
the Kaaba or striking the Kaaba or
looking to dismantle the house of Allah
azzawajal even if your close friend
tried to do that right you're going to
take him out
right this person is not in his right
mind the message saying that the Kaaba
is destroyed and then each part of the
Kaaba is removed imagine now the Kaaba
being destroyed right
that crane is brought and it is smashed
and then each part is moved out of the
car moved out of the Haram is being
walked out with
this is still not as bad as taking the
life of a Muslim
why do you have Muslims
killing and stabbing one another
that is because they haven't understood
right the sanctity of a human being
that claims
I'll tell you guys something my brothers
my sisters right then the Mr awesome
told us
if two Muslims they square up to one
another
with their souls or with their weapons
both the Killer and the one killed isn't
Hellfire
both of them are in Hell Fire
so the companions they are stay we
understand the one who killed what about
the one who was killed next time you
think about carrying a weapon right
foreign
so they asked why
I understand the one who was killed but
what about the one who was the one who
killed is enough but what about the one
who was killed
missing salallah is when they say
innocent Harrison
he was extremely eager in wanting to
take the life of the Killer isn't this
exactly what he wanted to do when he
squared up to him with a knife or with a
weapon except that the killer got there
first so here
he had that firm determination to carry
out the ACT
so both of them are in the Hellfire the
missing us Allah is telling us
right
we take it so lightly
something so trivial in our eyes
number four my brothers and my sisters
what we learned from this my brothers
and my sisters is weighing the pros and
the cons
and taking the lesser of the two evils
right write down taking the lesser of
the two evils
taking the lesser of the two evils
was inspired he had Revelation sent down
upon him
to take the life of this young child
and that is because he knew
what he would do when growing older what
was going to happen for those who are
paying attention earlier
once he grows older what is he going to
do
he's going to disbelief and also his
parents because of how much they love
him they're going to follow him into
this belief
which one is worse
or this child now growing older and I
mean the reason why another two Muslims
they Renegade
which one's worse
Allah says
being trout in your religion walking on
the face of this Earth and then your
religion has been trialed is far worse
than
having your soul taken away from you and
of course my brothers and my sisters no
one here can go and just take a life
because I think when he becomes older
he's going to do XYZ no my brother
you're not a prophet
uh just in case someone is thinking that
he should use the story of to take the
life of someone who's causing havoc on
the face of his Earth
that's not your right my friend
also just in case we have Channel 4 I
want to take things out of context
right are you guys with me
taking the lesser of the two evils this
is a very important legal Maxim
right
and we learned this
is
weighing the pros and the cons sometimes
you're in a predicament where you have
two evils and you have to pick one of
them what do you do the Sharia says
that you have to take the lesser of the
two evils I'll give you guys a couple of
examples inshallah that I didn't go
through last week in Dobby because I ran
out of time
first example that I want to give you
guys and I want you guys to give me the
answer
right we're taking a lot of different
topics here and with the Quran you could
do that
right
um
you have a Masjid
and they have this Imam that smokes
outside
as soon as he finishes leading star he
goes outside and start smoking
tomorrow I come
you have the Imam and the Masjid
imagine after finishing Australia is
standing there you know
I don't think anyone will respect him
after that right so imagine now you have
the Imam of a Masjid
maybe I shouldn't use that as an example
but the Imam goes outside
and then he went he starts smoking
right
to make it even worse he lights up some
weed and he starts smoking weed outside
and this is actually one of the examples
the scholars mentioned that I took from
under the sky either when explaining
right however his tribe they run the
Masjid
and they are what
caballion
huh
the individuals who are fanatic over the
tribe they're not gonna have this
individual now being taken out
he might have Quran he's got a lovely
voice but somebody like that is it
befitting for him to be leading us Allah
not at all especially if he's doing open
sin right
there are another group of individuals
who come to the Masjid
and they request for him to be removed
right
him being removed from the mess that is
either going to cause a war in the
Masjid or is going to lead to the
message being closed down because the
authorities are about to get involved
so now let me put forth the situation
you have someone who's leading the Salah
that smokes and does sins openly the
moment he finishes with his prayer
leading the Muslim in you've got that
right you can't remove him except by
causing a war in a Masjid which may
potentially lead to Bloodshed or the
house of Allah azzawajal being closed
down
because of this Fiasco that is going to
place due to the authorities getting
involved what should we do here guys
shall we leave him in place or should we
start the war or we'll get
huh
keep him
as the lesser of
two evils
this guy that comes in extremely
extremely handy here's the predicament
we don't have a third option
Jamil right to even lessen the evil even
more right if you're gonna sin go and do
it in private
stop smoking weed outside of the Masjid
does that make sense
give you guys another example I've got a
whole lot of examples that which makes
Allah very interesting is the examples
that are mentioned otherwise it can get
very boring
a father he has a daughter
two people they asked for a hand in
marriage
right one of them has the correct akhida
however
he falls into some Haram
right
even though he has the correct you know
he follows the Sunnah the message I'm
generally speaking however he has
certain sins that he carries out
another my brothers and my sisters or
the other person that asked for his
daughter's hand in marriage
he's someone who propagates innovation
however he doesn't carry out these sins
right
and this situation is that you have to
pick one of the two
which one should I give my daughter to
first
why the first
this guy has a nice Atticus but he just
has bitter but he has good etiques and
manners and he doesn't do any of these
Haram things that the person upon told
he does it or akhida does
which one is
or since
he said
Innovation is more beloved to Iblis than
what than sinning
why is that
because the person who's doing Bida
Innovations in the Deen he thinks he's
getting closer to Allah
but the guy who sins right you say to
please make Dua from Iman even the guy
who's sleeping around committing Haram
your advice
Allah forgive me
but the other guy doesn't agreed
right and this guy's just going to
consist and he's going to continue right
so this is one of the examples of the
early man mentioned like
another example oh I love this
lying is it haram
type
there is someone inside of your house
that some gangsters are trying to kill
he's hiding inside of your house they
come knocking on your door they were
like where's Muhammad
should you lie here
because if you don't lie they're going
to take his life which ones was them
taking his life are you lying
the shadow of a doubt this is what
are you gonna hand him
take his life
time someone is praying and then the
samosas and the bajio and also of the
other nice foods have been placed in
front of him while he's praying
right
and now he really badly wants to pray
and wants to eat this
which is going to cause his you know his
concentration in the Salah to disappear
to diminish
however
he has to pray right now otherwise the
time of the Salah is going to finish
which one's more important praying on
time or are you not praying without her
sure
because generally speaking what did the
message tell us
in but then the dinner is presented
which one do you do you eat first the
messages are as tall as and then you go
and pray but there's still time left
but now there's only a little bit of
time left and you have to pray on time
otherwise the time is going to finish
but you are praying now while your
stomach is rumbling
which one is the lesser of the two evil
for you now to pray without her sure or
for you to pray outside of his time
outside of the time it's less
without for sure
without her sure as the Lester of the
two evils
does that make sense because your soul
is too valid except now that you're
doing it in his proper time delaying the
Salah to outside of his time
is very dangerous guys it's actually
from the major sins
right it's actually from the major sins
praying whenever you want I'm going to
pray when I get home
nine to five there are three prayers
that you might have to pray especially
in the winter agreed
so he says I'm gonna Pray when I get
home my brothers is actually from the
major sense to delay all of the prayers
till after when I get home
right this is serious sin
well I was going to mention this but we
have little kids here
let me ask you guys a question
eating najessa is it allowed
impurities
huh
eating the jazz is allowed
but now my brothers and my sister you're
in a situation where you're going to
lose life
I remember there was a situation where
yeah
there was a situation that was presented
where
they done a uh a heart implant
to someone who's about to die and the
only heart that they could find that
would function is the heart of a pig
otherwise he's going to lose his life
nothing else is going to work here this
is what the doctors concluded with
in provinces with me
heart of a pig Brothers
Haram even his heart is Haram
huh but now his heart is going to save a
life
which one is the lesser of the two evils
to use the heart of a pig or to allow
this life to
be lost
Haram but to Save a Life agreed
this example that is mentioned
I think is very very important and very
relevant as well
for anyone who might feel
shallow make sure you get the other
benefits online huh
this example my brothers and my sisters
someone who is in a Haram relationship
he was carrying out the zinner
right
we're talking about someone who
right had the means to carry out this
major sin
and then he separated away from
being in this Haram relationship however
he finds himself in a predicament where
his sexual desires spiral out of control
and this individual has previously tried
not some random individuals well I think
I'm gonna fall into Zina I'm not talking
about that one we're talking about
someone who had the means
right
this individual now Allah is getting
very very tempted and that's because of
what he was falling into before
to commit this Haron and he has to
relieve his desires
otherwise he may fall into a zinner
that's what we're talking about
right
evening
and also this is one of the more correct
viewers
they talk about how if this one is this
in in this predicament of
he's going to fall into Zina
however that which may prevent it from a
Zina is what Al is
right which means masturbation
which one is West my brothers and my
sisters
and by the way brothers and sisters no
one take this out of context we are
talking about someone who's going to
fall into Harlem he was falling into
Haram and I stayed away from it and now
it's getting very tempting
not just some random individual who
Allah I think or no we're not talking
about that
he has to what here in this case lesser
of the two evils
Us number four guys
taking the lesson two evils we just took
some
number five now my brothers and my
sisters
number five
protects your Offspring through your
righteousness
right Allah azzawajal will protect your
Offspring my brothers and my sister
through your righteousness
what's my evidence
the third incident when he saw that wall
that was on the verge of collapsing
wasallam
straighten it up and what did Allah
azzawajal say that is because their
father was righteous so Allah wanted to
protect them and also their wealth so
here
why was this mentioned to give us a huge
lesson
is
they say that his name was cassid this
righteous man
he was from the righteous subhanallah
some of the scholars they mentioned are
that this righteous man my brothers and
my sisters
was Seventh Generation
ago
he was the father of the Seven
Generations ago
like he was there as a father he had
children and then they had children and
then and these guys were Seventh
Generation
and because of his righteousness they
were protected
because of his righteousness they were
protected subhanallah
my brothers and my sisters
right I had an email the other day of a
sister saying to me where did you study
I really want to do turbia of my child
I'm getting very worried about him and
then she tells me that a child is only
two years of age
it's like masha'allah the mother is
thinking about her child you know even
when it's still at the age of two
right
and I thought I was good but what can we
actually do to work towards
our children being righteous
protecting them I'll give you guys four
quranic advices
for quranic instructions from Allah
azzawajal if you want your children to
turn out righteous take this my brothers
and my sisters number one
right work on yourself
we've got drug dealers saying my
brothers and my sisters I want a
righteous lady I don't want these girls
that I have as girlfriends well I drug
dealer say this to me because she's not
wife material
she's not wife material
the drug dealer is sending me this
right and he goes I can't find a good
wife
the pure for the pure and then the evil
in the filthy are for the filthy
individuals
have you heard this saying before you'll
always find the person that you're like
if you work on yourself my brothers and
my sisters
you'll find someone
is good as well and then eventually the
children will will grow up in a positive
righteous environment
are you promises with me
so the first one work on yourself
when we talk about parenting a lot of
the time the young people they switch
off
Brothers the smart individual is the one
who thinks about his children before
he's even married what do I mean by that
by picking the right spouse by picking
the right spouse that is you working
towards the direction the children will
go in have you got some Road girl
right let's just say you marry a road
girl
where'd you want your kids to grow up in
it guys how would you want your kids to
turn up
that was the first one number two guys
for him
right
pray around them
pray around them brothers and sisters
kids as young as one and a half years of
age they know how to pray
anyone want to disagree with me
one and a half years of age did not pray
of course not with Russia and I'm gonna
do the rokua properly in the studio
probably no but they know the actions of
the Salah where did I get it from
they got it from their parents because
the parents pray in front of them and
even even think about it my brothers and
my sisters the wisdom behind why the
message
the most virtuous prayer
right that one can pray other than the
obligatory prayers that you do in the
Masjid is your Sunnah prayers
right the Sunnah prays you pray that
home is better the message told us that
why what are the hacking behind it
so the people in your household they get
accustomed and used to seeing their
father praying
does that make sense they are visual
Learners and likewise kids as one and a
half years of age my brothers and my
sisters they know how to access YouTube
videos
right they know how to access Omar and
Hannah Brothers
sisters
they know how to access videos
how even to go on Instagram and start
scrolling
they know this and they pick this up
are you promised this with me
you know when we hear the Hadith
right
every newborn is born upon the Federal
meaning the natural disposition but is
the parent that turns him into a Jew or
into a Christian or into Medusa
is it only limited to these three la
the child might even be turned into a
Netflix saw
or into what a movie addict
right
and that's simply because the parent is
glued to the TV
series of the series Hollywood Bollywood
Somali with khuda huh
they're watching this all the time the
child is watching his parents and
they're going to do the exact same thing
does that make sense
that was the first one Rectify yourself
number two
prayer amongst them what was the
evidence for it
Ibrahim uh
is that did I say right in the beginning
no
oh Allah make me from those who
establish the prayer and likewise make
our children an offspring like that as
well
right
sometimes when you're quoting is
different when you're leading
so that's the second one third one my
brothers and my sister is to make Dua
for them
right
mentioned
also the verse is sort of foreign
with regards to our children
right
[Music]
four things if you want your children to
be rectified
subhanallah when you come across some of
these statements like
a
whenever they used to pray at night and
then his child would be sleeping he
would look at him
and as he's looking at him he would say
because of you I'm praying at night
right and as he's reciting or should I
say as he is praying
he would cry and then recite the
statement of Allah
not while praying sorry
right while crying he would recite the
verse of Allah
his father was righteous
he's rectifying himself he's doing more
just so Allah protects them later on
likewise
every time he wanted to pray the night
prayer I will look at his child and he
would say
I'm only praying so Allah rectifies you
and preserves you and I will recite the
statement of Allah
the father was righteous
so whenever you begin to fear for your
children my brothers and my sisters
right
then do these four things
number six my brothers and my sisters
things that qualify or that cause you to
become Sonic
number one we shouldn't ever claim to be
righteous individuals we should always
do more because we don't know as to
whether it is being accepted or not we
worship Allah between hope and fear
so we do righteousness as much as we can
and we hope for it to be accepted yeah
number six my brothers and my sisters
right who is more virtuous
he's more virtuous
right we with our shadow of a doubt is
more virtuous than
however he was humble
right and he went out to take Knowledge
from someone who is less than him
and still he sets out on a journey now
to go and take Knowledge from
number six
the humility of the one who's more
virtuous right with those who are less
than him or less virtuous than him this
is very very important sometimes my
brothers and my sisters uh we pick up a
little bit of knowledge and we think
we've made it
right or we don't sit in Gatherings
because we don't want the people to
think that we are in need
right sometimes the shaytan can creep in
like that you're someone who leads the
Salah
but now if you sit people are going to
say oh the Imam is sitting there why is
he leading
when he's in need of this knowledge
number seven my brothers and my sisters
oh number six was
the humility of someone who's more
virtuous with someone who is less than
him
Musa was more virtuous he took Knowledge
from that or from the one who was more
less than him
number seven
you might be so knowledgeable in a
particular field
you are amazing in fact
are you amazing we have a lot of
brothers the amazing karate
right
mashallah you've become extremely
knowledgeable in the science of Hadith
or in fact
right that shouldn't stop you now from
taking Knowledge from someone whose
expertise lie elsewhere
does that make sense
this is very very important here
I'll give you guys an example that is a
lot more relatable I'm now a civil
engineer
right and I've become not just an
ordinary civil engineer
someone who's top of his game or someone
who's like the best of doctors you are
only good at that
you are a doctor you are so
knowledgeable in this field or in this
sector how can you go back to school by
sitting in a Masjid right
right back to square one huh scraping
your knees taking knowledge no man
that's not for me
right you are not better than Musa to
Assam and study humble themselves to
take the expertise that he didn't have
from someone who did
does that make sense because there was
that wish
I didn't that's why he said to him Allah
taught me things that you are not aware
of and you have things that I am not
aware of
does that make sense
I'm sorry mujahid told us about our ego
he says
but two people don't learn the one who's
shy I know is arrogant
number eight my brothers and my sisters
number eight
um
what also we benefit from this my
brothers and my sisters is having the
correct manners with
the teacher
right how to address him foreign
right you'll be surprised my brothers
and my sisters when we acquire knowledge
it's very different to acquiring civil
engineering or mathematics or whatever
have you yourself
with ethics you will understand
knowledge
adorning yourself and beautifying
yourself with the best of etiquettes
this is how you're going towards acquire
knowledge my brother says you will need
to humble yourself
to address that teacher in the best
possible way
he says he used to have arguments with
ABN Abbas
the cousin of the Prophet who had so
much knowledge with regards to the Quran
the prophet saws may drive for him
he says he was deprived of so much
knowledge
because of how he used to address him at
best as a teacher my brother's a mistake
and get very irritating
right if someone is not asking in the
most befitting of ways right your thing
until when is the guy going to stop when
is he gonna get out my face
as opposed to someone who's very gentle
right
who asks in a very very nice way
respectful
it says
someone who has good understanding but
he has he's a very bad at listening
we have
two ears and one tongue for a reason
you've got two ears so you can listen
more you can speak less so we have one
tongue
not two huh he says
the good is not going to outweigh the
evil here or the bad here
huh
even in New Jersey said my brothers and
my sisters
all this knowledge that I acquired from
it was only because I was nice and
gentle towards him
right now
right you can find it in there he says
he used to hold back from giving him
knowledge
foreign
number nine my brothers and my sisters
number nine nearly done brothers and
sisters very very happy they managed to
nine I've still got another seven eight
minutes to shallow Tyler
um
right
as he was teaching them guiding them
directing them
right
he chose to go and travel
over staying with them
and I think this is very very important
my brothers and my sisters
sometimes what happens is you pick up a
lot of publicity everyone's singing your
name
you become big in the Dao scene or you
become somewhat big on tick tock
satanic up
or you pick up so many followers so
quickly
and people are listening you're giving a
reminder every now and again right
the opportunity presents itself now to
go and study
my well-be that you go abroad but then
the shaytans all these people need you
like you are some messenger that has
been sent
they need you I don't go
you're benefiting everyone
right he left giving dawah to go and
study
and Allah honors the individual who
leaves something for the sake of Allah
or who does something for the sake of
Allah this is why I really really rate
Brothers
right I really rate Brothers even though
mashallah they got that were pumping
and I told a couple of Brothers this
like one of those Brothers mashallah
I'll mention him his name is
really commended him for this
he was teaching getting a lot of
publicity people like listening to him
mystery will get full
I think I accepted Medina oh it's hard
brothers and sisters hard
to leave all of that
Allah will happen later on
he left everything to go and study
and I will guarantee you my brothers and
my sister you leave or you do that
when you come back see how Allah will
honor you
right don't let the shaytan get to you
just because of a bit of publicity that
you picked up
I was number nine
I think you guys getting tired now
huh
he left many Israel that he was giving
to in order to go and seek knowledge
number 10 my brothers and my sisters
right
teaches in individuals of two types
a type of knowledge that you can acquire
with hard work
and there's a type of knowledge that is
what ledunni
what's my evidence for us
you might have all of that hard work you
might read a lot
right however understanding is granted
to you by Allah
right there are people my brothers and
my sisters they have
right the Zeal and the energy to
memorize
they put in the time
but it just doesn't seem to be happening
for them so you need to beg Allah Ya
Allah allow me to memorize allow me to
understand this
at times he would struggle to understand
certain things
foreign
certain issues
right you just couldn't understand he
would run to Allah azzawajal to make
Toba and to ask Allah for forgiveness
and he would seek
right
is from Allah if you're allowed to
remove this difficulty from him
you go straight to Allah
whoever works hard and he seeks Aid and
assistance from Allah
and he keeps asking love for forgiveness
and he works
the mind can't imagine but you have to
have my brothers and my sisters
a period
right of your day and perhaps even the
last third of the night Ya Allah I am
right
Ya Allah help me make me understand this
grant me beneficial knowledge and you
will see those opening up my brothers
and my sister that the Mind couldn't
imagine
I would have loved to talk about Mao
zamzam as well and how this can you know
open up doors number 11 my brothers and
my sisters
being patient with
the toughness and the roughness of the
one who's teaching you
and at times it might even be rude
right
I really like this benefit right
don't ask me anything imagine somebody
said that to you
imagine someone told you shop
huh
I'm not going to say that other told him
to shut up no he didn't but imagine
someone did in other words right he told
them don't ask me anything
be quiet
up until I explain to you
right
well our brothers and sister I'm gonna
quickly share something with you guys
right when I went to Medina I heard
about the most deadliest
memorizing circles ever
in the whole Arabian Peninsula they make
you read the Hadith backwards
and let's just say you have a poem right
and the poem is 30 lines you have to go
30 29 28 . it tells you jump five come
back four go three up until you huh
it was hard but that really solidifies
so I went up to the chair who runs it
and at the time I realized I'm just
being honest with you guys
I gave off the impression as if I was
deserving to be in his halaka
and he picked up on that I did this and
I did that you know can I come I'll be
able to hack it don't worry
it's like yeah all right
brother says he made me cry
absolutely humiliated me in front of
little kids
right
he goes go memorize 150 Hadith from and
then come back to me
so I did that I came back I was like
yeah I know he's gonna let me in because
okay come sit down
he brings maybe an 11 year old he goes
test him
he wants to see that
as to whether
you're going to let your ego get in the
way
he's like test him
I'm expecting oh he's going to test my
memory or what Hadith say it how many
times is 150.
I thought he was going to test the
memorization
because get out of here
come back next day Wallah humiliation
till I actually cried brother and sister
in front of the people some random guy
started speaking from his ex students he
was like okay you're not fit for this I
could get out of here
imagine a student saying this to me
the poor life brother sister whenever I
see him now I'll go kiss him on the
forehead
right I go kiss him on the void even
though he's the only ever humiliated me
why because he taught me something that
no one else did
he taught me how to solidify a Hadith
when memorizing it even though now my
memories become weak because you get
busy but at the time
right
we would read like 200 Hadith like that
you make a single mistake you got to
restart again time
so that's something well he actually
taught me how to solidify I assuming
that I took from him that no one else
told me maybe will tell us whether in
Mauritania they do it better
because they are the people of
memorization in Mauritania
Arafat
so you have to be patient brothers and
sisters The Poetry says
whoever's not patient for an hour he
will drink ignorance for the rest of his
life
well lie I used to walk with the Sheikh
in the Haram people would give him dirty
looks
because why are you with him there's so
many teachers go to them
why are you with him for
and I'm like yeah why am I with him
later on I understood why
and these guys that were giving him day
looks like you know one of those looks
they would walk away and
are people that we humiliated or he
refused into his
weren't patient
he's the one the reasons
well has been reading upon him for the
last 10 years the guy that you might
hear in the lessons is him
and if you're not patient my brothers
you're going to miss out a lot
is tough with you he has something that
you really need
so be patient
right
number 12 of my brothers and my sisters
and I mentioned this earlier a big cause
of being able to remain patient
is to have an idea of what you're
getting yourself involved in
without even asking
right without even asking don't worry
I'm going to be patient
you're going to find me patient don't
worry I'll be with you
about
right it will make it so much more easy
for you
normally when they walk around they're
trying to tell you something huh are you
provinces with me
right when it comes to marriage when it
comes to investment you have to prepare
yourself mentally that marriage is not
going to be all Rosy
how many times we find marriage first
month oh I think it's time to jump ship
the grass is green on the other side I
never sign up for this
I had my single life I was enjoying
myself this guy's uneducated about
marriage you have to tell you there's
not I remember my dad one time said to
me listen there's not a single house
that is free of problems
is he wrong brothers and sisters there's
always going to be arguments
huh so have that when you prepare oh no
okay it's happening what my dad said
what I took in the marriage course huh
we told them everything
we're scared the living dialer out of
them right just to give them what the
heads up
likewise Investments even Medina
brothers who go to Medina they say
Britain has the biggest dropout rate
from Medina and I think you know why
uh you know why
when we go for I'm gonna where do we
stay we stay in the Hilton we stay in
zamzam we stay in these big hotels Clock
Tower you think oh let's go into the
Harem in and out that's what life in
mukh and Medina is it's a very different
story
when you actually go there to study
so I have some insight ask likewise when
you make an investment ask
be ready that you could end up losing
everything are you going to be able to
Patient be patient if you lose
everything
number 13 my brothers and my sisters
the rest are very quick anyway inshallah
following the footsteps of Musa
buy it my brothers
did this
huh
shark these are like literally less than
two minutes less than two minutes very
quickly
you know
you can acquire Jannah through zakat
through sadaqah through fasting through
praying there are different
but the message told us
he the message
[Music]
whoever takes apart and she cannot Allah
will make his path to the agenda a lot
easier
my brothers and my sisters this will
bring you out to joy and happiness
right
I receive on average maybe a hundred
messages either by email Instagram and
Twitter every day
problems of the problems of the problems
and at times I say to myself
a solution to all of this is if you just
studied a little bit
many people think that when you start
seeking knowledge this is like a
profession a career path
right and I only want to or I only seek
knowledge if I'm trying to become the
next big Mufti
right people choose engineering they
choose medicine they choose mathematics
right and they look at seeking knowledge
the same way it's not like that my
brothers must we can't function in this
world we can't navigate around the
fitness
except with beneficial knowledge you
need knowledge no matter who you are
whether you're a doctor a
multimillionaire otherwise you may well
find yourself in depression
and join in the long list of people who
are messaging and saying brother help me
Brothers with blue ticks are messaging
me on Instagram who are rappers some
even footballers
I'm not gonna mention any names I'm
saying brother I feel this you know
emptiness what can I do
right
number 14 my brothers and my sisters
refer to those who are working on the
ship
right they would work on see right as
Miss skin
someone might still be right eligible
for zakah because Allah is
from amongst those eights that were
mentioned are masakin
he may have something that helps him get
by but is still not enough and is
eligible for azakah
right so don't judge a book by its cover
you don't know what they're going
through
right all this guy has got this then
Halas he must be all right no
number 15 my brothers and my sisters
there is a big card just how we learned
a card earlier I'm alone
right
dealing or doing something that
let me rephrase this well let me give
you guys an example to make it easier
let's just say there is three four
people who have invested into a company
one of them
makes a move because he fears that all
of the money will be lost
he makes a particular decision
he saves it but there is a small loss
the other three investors are they
allowed to turn around and say Ahi it's
your fault that we made this loss no he
was protecting the wealth so he had to
take that decision
so sometimes you can do something with
the wealth of others in order to
protect what's my evidence what he did
he put a hole in the ship
which protected the rest of the ship
from being taken away from taken away by
that tyrannical oppressive ruler that is
benefit number 15 my brothers and my
sister 16 is that if Allah if you do
something out of forgetfulness you can't
hold him to account Allah doesn't hold
him to account
the first one was out of forgetfulness
right
foreign
they hold it for the next 10 years
I don't know how to forgetfulness
and last but not least number 17 saying
insha Allah and that's exactly what he
done my brothers and my sisters
will protect you from some Misfortune
we did more than what we wanted to go
through we're done 17.
foreign
[Music]